{"men women": " The recent success of two female officers, both West Point graduates, in passing the Army's grueling Ranger School has bolstered arguments for the full integration of women into the military's front-line combat units. In becoming the first women to receive the coveted Ranger tab, the two officers proved that women can handle not just the physical challenges but also the psychological and leadership tests posed by the nine-week course. Their graduation could not have come at a more important moment: In September, the heads of each armed services branch must tell Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter which positions and units they believe they can integrate and provide evidence for why any other position should remain closed. As that deadline looms, the Marine Corps is dealing with its own gender-related controversy. In June, Lt. Col. Kate Germano was removed from her position as commander of the Fourth Battalion at Parris Island, the Marines' all-female boot camp. During her time as commander, Colonel Germano asserted that the Marines' setting lower standards for women than men led to an underlying sexism in the ranks, one that systematically kept women from reaching their full potential. It is noteworthy that most of the reports and commentary about Colonel Germano's case have been written by men. Some pieces have been sympathetic to her situation, including one by Elliot Ackerman, a former Marine Corps officer, who used her case to give an honest and objective look at the systemic problems acting as barriers for women in the Marines. He argued that an institutionalized \"hyper-masculinity\" is a greater barrier than physical standards to the full integration of women into all military positions. It is a point that needs deeper discussion. To add breadth and depth to this conversation, and to take it beyond Colonel Germano's case, I believe it is time to speak out about my experiences. The more women who are willing to speak about the way in which the ingrained hyper-masculinity hinders progress toward integrated forces, the closer we will come to an honest conversation about the true hurdles to gender integration. Colonel Germano's case is one example. Mine is another. I joined the Marine Corps a year after graduating from Georgetown University. Feeling stagnant in my civilian job, I was looking for a physical and mental challenge, and the Corps' ethos of \"honor, courage and commitment\" appealed to me. Those entering the Marines as officers do so via the Marine Corps' Officer Candidate School, known as O.C.S., in Quantico, Va. This 10-week course is designed to test an individual's mettle and their ability to be a leader of Marines. Unlike enlisted boot camp, where all training is in a gender-segregated environment, the vast majority of O.C.S. is integrated. Female platoons have their own sleeping and hygiene accommodations but perform all physical and academic training in the same environment as males. Though this training and evaluation is simultaneous, women still have a lower standard for purely physical tasks. While O.C.S., and the subsequent Basic School that all Marine officers attend, is gender integrated, the Infantry Officer's Course and several advanced courses, such as Mountain Warfare Training Center and Marine Corps Special Operations, remain closed to women. The physical standards for Marine Corps training are extremely demanding. Leading up to O.C.S. I would make the trek to my Officer Selection Office for rigorous training: Seven-to-10-mile runs in combat boots and utilities, weekly physical fitness tests, weight training and the long marches that we affectionately call \"humps.\" I was able to run three miles (the Marines' fitness test standard) in under 18 minutes, get my scrawny bike-racer arms to do pull-ups, and even condition my feet to run mile after mile in boots. Heading into O.C.S. I was focused, confident and strong. Though I was aware that there were separate male and female standards for physical performance, being the only woman at my selection office, I continually held myself to the men's standard. At my initial fitness test at O.C.S., I ran three miles in 16 minutes 58 seconds. I was beaten only by the company commander (who would later become a friend and mentor when I was stationed at New River in Jacksonville, N.C.), and one of the male candidates I had spent the summer training with (and who had been training for the Olympic track team as his back-up plan to the Marines). I was incredibly proud of my performance. I had given my best. I had proved that I belonged  no, that I was better than  the men chosen to audition to become the elite of the elite, leaders of Marines. When I returned to my platoon's squad bay, however, I was greeted with a different sentiment. \"Who do you think you are, candidate?\" my platoon commander, a woman, barked. I must have stared back blankly, as I received a barrage of insults for several minutes. I was later counseled that the standard for women was 21 minutes, and that I should get used to running slower. For the rest of my time at O.C.S., I was continually pushed to the back of runs and told to \"learn what was expected of me.\" When I and another female Marine were near the front of a company run, we were asked why we hadn't fallen out like females are supposed to. (I must add that my platoon sergeant was an incredible Marine who continues to encourage women to be their physical best. She is a rare exception.) I could tell several other stories like this. While men in my squadron were praised and received accolades for getting perfect scores on their fitness tests, I was rewarded with, \"We're glad Captain Hunter is leaving the squadron so we won't get beaten by a girl any longer.\" I don't fault any one male in particular for this, but rather an institution that has conditioned Marines to expect less from its members who are born female. My experiences go beyond the expected harassment or normal button-pushing of Marines undergoing their initial training. By forcing women to adhere to a lower standard than men, and by effectively punishing them for exceeding their given standard, the institution is setting them up for failure. It is no wonder that the first women to attempt the Infantry Officer Course have failed. The course, even tougher than O.C.S., has been opened in recent years to female volunteers as part of the Marines' study of gender integration into the infantry. I would argue the women's failure is due to the fact that female Marines have been denied an even playing field from the beginning. While men have generally spent over a year physically preparing for the demands of the Infantry Officer Course, the women who have attempted the course have done so with mere months of notice. When an institution expects less of one group, and mandates lower standards for that group, there is no way that it will progress without a great deal of reform. During her tenure at Parris Island, Colonel Germano proved that the majority of women could meet the \"higher\" standard if given the tools and the expectations. Was it easy? No. But should we expect anything less of those who choose to serve in the service with the slogan \"The Few. The Proud\"? Yet rather than rewarding her for innovative and effective training techniques, she was punished. The military is an inherently physical business. Initial impressions of fellow military members are frequently based on their physical performance. By conveying this truth to her recruits, Colonel Germano was setting them up for success, not berating them. The sad truth is that by institutionally expecting less of women, women begin to expect less of themselves. Upon successfully completing O.C.S. and Basic School, I went to flight school and became an AH-1W \"Super Cobra\" pilot. As the only female pilot on multiple combat deployments, I can attest to the cultural bias that the dual standards produce. Combat does not care about your gender. Flying the Cobra required the same physical and mental acuteness from me as it did from my male counterparts. Yet despite proving myself time and time again, the lower standards meant that my performance would always be called into question. In 2012 I left the Marine Corps to study the impact of gender integration on fighting groups. Both my own experiences and the situation surrounding Colonel Germano highlight the reality that the biggest barrier to integration is changing a long-established culture of fighting men. It has been proven that the barriers to women's integration are not physical, but institutional. The recent completion of the Army's Ranger School by two women should quell once and for all the misguided belief that women are unable to meet the standards required for elite combat units. However, even in the wake of this historic accomplishment, there are those who question its validity. Despite these critics, the Army is standing by the success of the soldiers and the validity of the process they went through. The Navy has even announced that they will be opening SEAL training to women. The institutional tide is shifting. It is time the Corps started looking for a Few Good Marines, not just a Few Good Men. Kyleanne Hunter is a Ph.D. Candidate at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver. She served was a United States Marine officer for 10 years, serving as an AH-1W pilot and liaison officer to the House of Representatives.\n", "money captain marathon raise ran marathons finish continents running charity days": " Calum Ramm, a captain in the Marine Corps, has run many marathons in his day, but last week he set out on a far bigger challenge: running seven marathons on seven continents in just seven days as part of the World Marathon Challenge.  Starting off deep in Antarctica on Jan. 23, he went on to complete marathons in Chile, Miami, Madrid, Morocco and Dubai before the finale in Sydney, Australia, on Friday. Only 15 athletes took part; those who finished ran 183.4 miles through snow, mountains, tropical heat and city streets.  Captain Ramm, from Lansing, Mich., is running to raise money for a charity, the Semper Fi Fund. and is a member of the official Marine Corps running team. Here are some of his thoughts about his experience:\n Chile was way easier, but the wind was brutal. Almost had me moving backwards at some points. I went out really slow, but dropped some serious splits on the last eight miles. Felt really good upon finishing, almost better than Antarctica. The footing was obviously better so that helped.  In Dubai I hit my wall. I thought I may not finish, at least not running. Pounding out so many miles on pavement had beat my feet up pretty bad and I had some serious shin splints  so bad that my whole leg started to swell. I could hardly put weight on it before the race started. By mile eight I was hurting pretty bad. At that point, I decided to shed my sneakers and run barefoot, hoping to reduce the swelling and open up the blood flow. I normally do one training run a week barefoot in grass, and that came in handy at this moment. I crossed the line in under four hours, which was a huge relief. But my race in Australia felt in jeopardy. I knew I had to run Sydney in shoes because it was 13 laps on brick. Plus it was at night and along the beach  so who knew what I might step on. Walking to the start line, the wind was out of control. Not ideal conditions for a bummed leg. But like I had done in Dubai and Morocco, I thought about all the individuals cheering me on and knew I had to just gut it out. I linked up with the other Marine and we pushed through a mile at a time to finish in 3:38 for the final race. It was bittersweet crossing that line. I was happy I didn't have to wake up and throw the running shoes back on. But this incredible life experience was coming to a close. Running has always been so much more than just a hobby for me. It has been a venue to vent my frustrations, clear my head and help sort out life's challenges. And in this event, the many, many miles spent with nothing but the pavement and my thoughts meant something more: a chance to help troops and veterans in need. Thanks for the support. ", "zones drop combat pararescuemen fallen practice officers jump brothers standard rescue": " We step off the C-130 ramp from 13,000 feet above the Florida Keys and into a radiant, cool blue sky, cloudless yet hazy on the horizon. Arms interlocked, Dan, Paul and I skydive in a three-man formation while a fourth chases us with his helmet-cam. There is nothing inherently unique about the act of falling at 149 miles per hour, not after you've done it enough. But this jump has a sacramental feel even at terminal velocity, and I know it's due to the name of the drop zone beneath us.\n I'm not sure when the military started naming parachute drop zones for the fallen. But among Air Force pararescuemen and combat rescue officers like Dan, Paul and me, it's standard practice to name drop zones for fallen brothers. Cunningham Drop Zone: named for Jason Cunningham, a pararescueman, or PJ, who died on Roberts Ridge during Operation Anaconda in 2002. Maltz Drop Zone: named for a PJ killed in a 2003 Afghanistan helicopter crash. Plite. Gentz, the first combat rescue officer, or CRO, to die in Afghanistan. Flores. The list goes on. Dan emailed me a few months back and said it was time to do the same. Not for a PJ or CRO, but a Marine we had carried in our arms: Lt. Col. Christopher K. Raible. The commander of a deployed squadron of Harriers, Colonel Raible died defending his men from 15 heavily armed insurgents who slipped inside the perimeter of Camp Bastion, Afghanistan, on Sept. 14, 2012. Dan, Paul, and I were all there that night  but at the end of the night, it was Dan who escorted Colonel Raible's flag-covered remains from the Harrier Squadron to the hospital. Dan's goodbye salute was the first of many to come during the colonel's long journey home.  At 6,000 feet, the three of us break apart and track across the sky away from one another before deploying our parachutes. It's not until my chute is open, and I'm suspended a half-mile above the blue-green waters of Dry Tortugas National Park that I can actually appreciate the view. To the east five kilometers is Fort Jefferson  a Civil War era fortress whose dark battlements took 30 years to build. Beneath me, Loggerhead Island looks like an elongated skateboard. A narrow beach rings the 1.5 mile perimeter of the island, holding back fields of green that consist mainly of prickly pear cactus. On the beach is an orange upside down \"V\" assembled from large rubber panels  this indicates wind is from the north. White caps on the waves verify 5- to 10-knot winds. Paul maneuvers his parachute so he's lower than Dan and me and \"sets the pattern\" for us to all land on the V. He's got several hundred jumps under his belt, so Paul is well qualified to land on target, despite the beach's being only 20 yards wide. It's the narrowest drop zone I've ever seen. One hundred feet above the beach, I try to freeze the panorama with all my senses. The lighthouse, helicopters parked in the background. White beach and green water. A picture could never do this moment justice, could never pair the view with how it feels to descend under a silken wing. The sound of the chute flapping in wind. The feel of the canopy control lines in my hands; lines I can tickle to land me exactly where I want. The knowledge that all this will be over in seconds, and I will be earthbound once more.  Dan emailed our plans to Colonel Raible's widow, Donnella: a small gathering to commemorate him and a memorial plaque that would go into the National Park Service caretaker home on the island. He asked if she would send some mementos she would like to see enshrined. When Donnella's package arrived, Dan sent me this text: \"Not gonna lie  whole night comes back  pretty sure someone is cutting onions nearby  I will ensure the plaque and ceremony preserves his legacy.\" There were five photos, a coin, and two patches. In one photo, Donnella posed in front of a fireplace with the three kids. In another, a Christmas wreath rested against his Arlington headstone, evergreen on gray lithochrome.  We gather alongside a dozen other jumpers under the shade of some palm trees near the lighthouse. Dan pulls out the plaque and stands in the sun with me while I share some memories of the night with the men, then pause for a moment to consider our peaceful surroundings. There is nothing to hear but the surf and the wind that shakes the palm fronds. Dan reads the plaque, then a handwritten note on a green sticky from Donnella. He makes it through only a few words before emotion overcomes him. Another PJ takes over to finish reading. Then I pull a 3-foot by 5-foot embroidered American flag from my right cargo pocket where it resided during the jump. We pose for a team photo with the flag and the plaque in front of the lighthouse. The photo will go on a certificate that will accompany the flag back to the Raible family, along with a few mementos not unlike what Donnella sent us. The plaque goes to the caretakers. Then it's done and the guys scatter. I run the beach, and as I round the southern tip of the island, the expanse of blue is a reminder of the distance and solitude it affords. After a few miles, I rest in the cool of the ocean until the thrum of my heartbeat disappears from my ears; soon there is only the calm arrival of swells borne by the fetch of a wind that began a thousand miles away.  The morning we depart, a caretaker and I exchange greetings, and she asks me about the plaque. The caretakers are temporary National Park Service volunteers, two of whom always live in the simple, two-story edifice a stone's throw from the lighthouse. She asks polite questions, never prods. Simply nods and murmurs when I tell her my story. She tells me that after they affixed the plaque to the wall, the caretakers stayed up into the night discussing Colonel Raible, whose name they didn't know until we fell from the sky to honor his legacy. They wrote an entry in the home log to describe what they saw. That way, she says, everyone will know his name. Matthew Komatsu is a full-time Alaska Air National Guardsman and a second-year student in the University of Alaska, Anchorage M.F.A. in Creative Writing program. He has published multiple pieces here; in War, Literature and the Arts; and has an essay coming in the fall issue of Brevity. You can follow him at www.matthewkomatsu.com or on Twitter @Matthew_Komatsu.\nThe views expressed here are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the United States Air Force, the Defense Department or any branch of the United States government", "suicide veteran answers times high questions answer veterans": " Since coming back from Afghanistan in 2008, the hard-hit Second Battalion, Seventh Marine Regiment has struggled to adjust. The battalion, known as the 2/7, lost 20 men in war. In the years since, it has lost 13 more to suicide. The battalion now has a suicide rate 14 times that for all Americans. The New York Times asked Dr. Charles Engel, of the RAND Corporation, and two Marines who served with the battalion in Afghanistan, Arthur Karell and Keith Branch, to answer readers' questions about the devastating effects of combat and the high suicide rate among veterans. The conversation took place on Facebook in October, moderated by Dave Philipps, a reporter for The Times who covers veterans' affairs. Here are some of the questions and answers, which have been condensed and edited. Q. Why were the mental health concerns of the battalion not identified following deployment? What can be done to better identify service members who are struggling? Arthur Karell: The process for identifying mental health concerns consisted of one post-deployment health assessment (a questionnaire), along with two weeks of downtime leave after getting back to the States. Then the battalion immediately enters a training cycle for the next deployment. The overwhelming emphasis is on constant tactical training  longer-term considerations got crowded out. I have heard that this is now starting to change, and I hope that is actually the case. Allowing Marines and other service members more time to spend together as a cohesive unit after a combat deployment would go a long way to better identifying service members who are struggling. Finally, that there is zero information-sharing between the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration makes it impossible for health providers or volunteer organizations to have access to information that could provide indications of possible problems. Privacy is an issue, but service members should at least have the option to allow their D.O.D. service records to inform V.A. health providers. Keith Branch: Ideally, if someone scored as \"high risk\" on the post-deployment assessment, he or she would be referred to on-base mental health services. From my memory, there were only a handful of service members who utilized these services  I was one of them. However, my stint in therapy lasted less than a month. First, there is an extremely prevalent negative stigma associated with seeking mental health services, especially in the combat arms occupations where weakness is not tolerated. I hope things have changed since 2009. Second, the mental health services on base had long waiting periods and the solution was to prescribe medication. I know more than a few Marines who became addicts while seeking mental health services. From my experience, many Marines do not show signs of mental health problems until they separate from the service. I think being surrounded by the people who served in combat with you provides a sense of security. However, that security is lost when service members separate and return home. Q. Are multiple combat deployments a contributing factor to suicide? Dave Philipps: The data suggest there is little or no added suicide risk associated with multiple deployments, but those studies have been unable to address the amount of combat seen. Second, no study has looked at this question after active duty. We simply don't know. Anecdotally, nine of 13 members of the 2/7 who killed themselves did multiple tours. And I think it is important to note the quick succession of these tours, with less than a year between. Q. Is the pain experienced by veterans who return from combat rooted primarily in the events of the past or in their outlook for the future? K.B.: For myself and many other veterans from Second Battalion, Seventh Marines, the pain that is rooted in the past gives rise to an irrational outlook for the future. That is to say, an emotional trigger in the present can provoke the anxiety experienced in a past event and cause a veteran to have an irrational, grim view of the future. Being the tip of the spear for your country instills the highest amount of purpose one could seek to achieve in a lifetime, at least from a veteran's perspective. The veterans who soon establish a purpose, whether through a career, volunteer work or some other activity, and have a supportive environment, tend to become happy and successful. On the other hand, if a purpose is not found during the critical period of military to civilian transition, veterans will suspend themselves in time. This can lead to many devastating behaviors such as addiction, isolation, and the list goes on. There are other important secondary factors such as the health of intimate relationships, financial stability and treatment from society. A.K.: The events of the past inform the outlook for the future. When the events of the past repeatedly trigger an anguish that doesn't abate, it may cause a veteran to question what kind of future they have in store. I've heard of post-combat stress described as a response to deep moral trauma, as war is just about the most intense and certainly the largest-scale moral trauma humans inflict on one another. For veterans, post-military activities, pursuits and/or careers that involve or embody a shared purpose, go a long way toward recovery from that moral trauma. Q. What role do guns have in veterans' suicides?\n\nD.P.: In the 2/7, nine of the 13 Marines who killed themselves used guns. I spoke to three more who put a gun to their head and pulled the trigger but did not die, and several more who had contemplated suicide with a gun. It appears to be a very big risk factor to have a gun in the house. The V.A. has recognized this, but has been careful in how it presents advice (recommending storing weapons voluntarily with a friend) because doctors don't want veterans to avoid treatment out of fear they will lose their guns. Dr. Charles Engel: Six of 10 gun-related deaths are suicides, and about half of all suicides are gun-related. Most suicides occur on impulse, and the availability of a gun makes it all too easy for a person experiencing suicidal thoughts to act on that impulse. Some have speculated that perhaps one reason that suicide is elevated among military personnel and veterans is their experience with guns. Exchanging hostile fire in battle, especially the experience of killing, may represent an important psychological threshold. The tragic psychological familiarity that comes with crossing that threshold may well increase the likelihood of subsequent self-inflicted injury in someone already thinking about suicide. Q. I know so many veterans who are prescribed all sorts of prescriptions off label and leave the V.A. with a plastic bag full of drugs. Do we know whether these drugs have an effect on the suicide rate? C.E.: Unfortunately, determining whether there is a causal link between multiple medications and suicide is extremely difficult. The bag of pills observation is all too common in my clinical experience and never a good thing. It's essential that any person taking prescription psychoactive medication only does so while under the close care of an appropriately credentialed and skilled clinician. Leftover medications and old pill bottles should be disposed of completely to prevent confusion. Less is often more when it comes to the benefits of medications  more medications leads to increased chance of side effects, drug-drug interactions, and mistakes  both by patients when taking them and clinicians when prescribing them. It's always best to have a primary care clinician who leads the treatment team who can review and oversee your entire treatment regimen. Q. The public generally uses post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, as a catchall label for the psychological effects of combat. Are there distinct treatments for other issues  guilt, depression, loss of interest in life  that seem to fall outside the clinical definition of PTSD? C.E.: PTSD, as used among mental health professionals, is a clearly defined constellation of persistent symptoms that is serious enough and lasts long enough to result in significant problems for the person suffering from them. The traumatic psychological events that can result in PTSD go well beyond military-related trauma and can include, for example, accidents, natural disasters, child abuse, and physical and sexual assault. Similarly, the downstream effects of PTSD can be broad and include a range of mental and physical health effects that fall outside the technical definition of the disorder. The most common of these include depression, anxiety, alcohol and drug misuse, chronic pain and sometimes poorly explained but disabling physical symptoms. There are evidence-based treatments for these problems. Those treatments can sometimes overlap with the treatments for PTSD, but combining treatments to target each person's unique circumstances and health profile is essential. Q. Why isn't more being done to try and understand the connection between drug and alcohol use and PTSD? D.P.: In my reporting on the 2/7 battalion, I found alcohol was a huge factor in a number of deaths. Many of the guys were treating their anxiety and sleep problems with alcohol, which generally created more problems (eroding their support system of loved ones, for example.) At least five of the 13 Marines I wrote about shot themselves while drunk. Q. Why doesn't the V.A. track suicides by unit and command? Wouldn't that tell us a lot about conditions inside those units and who might be in danger? D.P.: For generations, the V.A. has for the most part attempted to look at all veterans the same regardless of rank or service. This was done altruistically in an attempt to provide veterans the same standard of care. Now, however, health care increasingly uses Big Data to do risk prediction. So all the factors of military service may be extremely helpful in predicting who, for example, is most likely to kill themselves, and what patterns or clusters are emerging. A system that combined military and V.A. data could conceivably spot a combat unit with a high level of mental health issues and target it for outreach. It could also inform policy makers about who is at risk and when, so resources could be designed to meet actual needs. However, the military and V.A. still have a bureaucratic gulf between them that neither is likely bridge alone. Q. The figure coming from the V.A.: \"22 veteran suicides every day\" is said to be misleading. Why? D.P.: The statistic was offered by the V.A. in one of their recent suicide reports. While it seems to be a staggering number, it is actually misleading because it doesn't tell us the rate as compared to the larger population, so we don't know if the rate is elevated, and what the trend is. A couple more helpful numbers: The suicide rate for all veterans who served between 2001 and 2009 is about 30 deaths per 100,000  more than twice the national average. And the risk for them is greatest in the first three years after separating from the military. Q. With the increased involvement of women in the military, how do their suicide numbers compare with those of men?\n\nC.E. In the military as in the general population, rates of suicide are consistently higher in men than women. However, research suggests that currently deployed women may have higher rates of suicide than military women who have never deployed. In contrast, currently deployed men show little if any increased suicide risk compared to military men who have never deployed. An Army study found that the risk of suicide among currently deployed women was about three times that of nondeployed women. Even so, the risk of suicide among currently deployed men was still almost twice as high as for currently deployed women. D.P.: In general, women have much lower rates of suicide than men, in part because men tend to use firearms more often. But a recent study found women who are veterans are drastically more likely to commit suicide than civilian women. This may be because women who are veterans use firearms more often.", "school life high college": " A month before I started my freshman year of high school, my father was killed in a cycling accident. Overnight my mother became a single parent and our sole breadwinner. She was forced to work twelve-hour days to maintain our standard of living and consequently I was often alone in an empty house. Like most teenagers, I rebelled. With the loss of my father came a profound loss of discipline in my life. Combined with the sudden absence of my mother who was now compelled to work long hours, the tragedy had an important tertiary effect: I stopped attending classes. Eventually, to the distress of my mother, I left high school, opting to take the G.E.D. instead. College was the last thing on my mind, because college was for savvy, affluent students who studied for SATs and graduated on a normal schedule. It wasn't for people like me.      At 17, I would have been the ideal candidate for an 'absentee father' case study: misguided anger, unabashed recklessness, unclear identity. I sought challenges but had no purpose. Luckily (or unluckily) for me there was a war. I was an Army recruiter's dream. With my mother's anxious signature, I was in. Throughout most of my seven years in the military I gave little thought to the outside world. When provided the discipline, direction, and the brutish encouragement of male authority figures, I began to excel, rapidly advancing through the ranks. I was given ever-greater responsibility  making sergeant in two years. After my first three-year contract expired I enthusiastically re-enlisted for another four. I had found my identity. I was a soldier. Five years later everything changed during a deployment to Afghanistan in 2010. One of our missions was to facilitate the opening of schools in Kunduz Province. That April, in an effort to intimidate girls from attending, the Taliban attacked the schools with poison gas. It didn't work. The girls continued to walk to class despite the threat. As a teenager, I had taken for granted the opportunity to have an education not because an armed insurgency prevented me, but because of my own ambivalence. In Afghanistan, a country plagued with incessant violence, the decision to go to school was often one of life or death. For me, it was a luxury I had wasted. And I regretted it. A switch had been flipped. For the rest of my deployment nothing could satisfy my thirst for knowledge. I began ordering books online and borrowing from fellow soldiers: politics, literature, science, mathematics  anything and everything. The inevitable downtime that accompanies the soldier's profession proved ideal for reading. As my squad hovered around a laptop watching bootleg copies of \"The Jersey Shore,\" I found myself reducing fractions, reading Steinbeck and keeping up on the midterm congressional elections. One night after a long political conversation with my company commander, he looked at me meaningfully and asked, \"Why don't you go to college?\" Hearing those words out loud was the catalyst I needed. Though the Army had been my home for seven years, and these men were my family, I had been quietly realizing that the path I was seeking was not one I could find in the military. A year later, I was out. I moved to Chicago and enrolled in a local community college. I walked into my first class convinced that what felt so inconceivable as a teenager would now be a breeze. I had matured in the military, instilled with discipline, commitment and leadership skills. I'd be the exemplary student. After all, I used to get shot at for a living. How hard could it be? Turns out, really hard. I had spent months preparing for the academic rigor, but what I could not have anticipated was the challenge of reintegrating into society. I never expected college to be more stressful than combat. But it was, only different: almost entirely self-inflicted. I was consumed by the fear that no matter what I did, I would never be able to relate to my classmates. I was older, had fought in two wars and been exposed to death. What could we possibly have in common? I bore scores of prejudices from the military to my civilian life. They were part of my identity, making it impossible to connect with anyone, impossible to make friends, impossible to reintegrate.   It was difficult to adjust to the loss of camaraderie and trust that I took for granted in the military. The culture of an infantry platoon resembles that of a tribe, into which one is indoctrinated only by the mystery of violence and death. Outsiders uninitiated into this mystery are regarded with suspicion. In combat, I knew whom I could trust  the members of my tribe. For years I trained, ate, slept and fought with the same men. It forged an incredible bond and a sense of safety. Paradoxically, I felt more secure in Iraq and Afghanistan than anywhere else. In an effort to find solace I joined my university's Student Veterans of America chapter where I found a community of people who had gone through similar situations. I joined a writing group for veterans where I could put painful memories into a narrative that I could control. As productive as this was, however, I was still segregating myself from my civilian peers. That I still regarded them as \"civilians\" told how much I still viewed myself as an outsider. I had formed nearly no relationships with my fellow non-veteran classmates.       I hated the questions I feared they would ask: \"So, why did you join the military?\" To me, this was a ridiculous query. There was a war. Why didn't you join? Worse, the inevitable and voyeuristic question: \"Did you ever kill anyone?\"   I became more resentful, withdrawn. In terms of distance from my classmates, I felt as if I was from Mars.    My animosity turned into untenable opinions. Those who didn't serve became \"selfish\" or \"cowards,\" unworthy of my respect. I thought: \"Who were they to think they had something better to do while those, like me, were fighting and dying on their behalf.\"     Then, my sophomore year, I met a girl in biology class who had been battling leukemia almost her entire life  and was now studying oncology nursing. Having spent most of her life inside a hospital, she wanted to provide comfort and empathy to others afflicted with the same disease. She didn't seem to bear any resentment or animosity. I came to view her bravery with admiration. I wasn't the only one who'd suffered. Once again, like in Afghanistan, I felt ashamed of my actions. I realized that it was only my own self-prescribed prejudices that were holding me back. When I accepted others for who they were, when I began listening to their stories, I learned that everyone fights their own wars. Making friends became easier. As it turns out, reintegration is a two-way street. After spending a year at that community college in suburban Chicago, I transferred as a junior to the American University of Paris. I'm now finishing my last semester there and, like most soon-to-be graduates, I find myself thoroughly occupied. I petition companies for unpaid internships, procrastinate on my thesis and remain in a constant state of near-panic at the prospect of moving back in with my mother. I know that I made the right decision; the benefits of a four-year degree are backed by indisputable empirical evidence. But there's more to college than just increasing the chances of professional success. The four years have also represented a long and important process by which I've re-entered civilian life. It was a place where my intellectual hunger could feast, and most importantly  I found my passion. Sadly, too many of my fellow veterans are not taking advantage of this opportunity. Only about half of the eligible veterans use their Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits, which cover tuition, living expenses and even books. Moreover, a recent study showed that only half of those who do return to school are graduating  which means only a quarter of eligible veterans are earning college degrees. This golden opportunity is being wasted. I don't presume to know all the reasons student veterans decide to leave college, or never enroll in the first place. Some probably found lucrative employment as contractors overseas, or in the oil industry. Many have unique obstacles that \"traditional\" students typically do not, such as families or physical and mental trauma. But with unemployment rates among veterans aged 18 to 25 at 7 percent (national average is 5.1 percent) the issue is disconcerting.      I'll spare readers the \"If I can do it, anyone can\" clich. But, for many of my fellow veterans college may not just be a place for learning, but also for healing. It was for me.\n\nRyan Blum was a squad leader with the Army's 10th Mountain Division, deploying twice to Iraq and once to Afghanistan. He now studies International Affairs at the American University of Paris. He is also a member of Foreign Policy's Best Defense Council of the Former Enlisted which seeks to inject more of the enlisted perspective into policy discussions. Twitter: @ryanblum1", "units combat integrate good women": " Fourteen years ago, when I was a midshipman at Marine Corps Officer Candidates School, our female sergeant instructor lined us up at attention. \"If you're a woman in the Marine Corps,\" she said, \"you're either a bitch, a dyke, or a ho.\" Shocking? Perhaps. But with a purpose: she was trying to prepare us to interact with men who wouldn't always be supportive of our presence. So this fall, before Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter announced that women would be allowed into all military occupations, I looked to the Marine Corps' yearlong experiment to integrate women into ground combat jobs to see if attitudes had changed.  The early indications were not good. A four-page, unsigned summary of the experiment made public last summer bluntly concluded that all-male units outperformed integrated units in combat tasks, particularly hiking while carrying heavy loads and manning certain heavier weapons. But those four pages did not mention statistics about unit cohesion. When I interviewed several female Marines who participated in the experiment, I found an interesting pattern. The quality of leadership at the squad, platoon and company level was a key factor that directly affected the successful integration of women into a cohesive unit.   Sgt. Danielle Beck paused her career as a comptroller to join the experiment's Weapons Company. She trained in anti-armor missiles, the heaviest of which weighed about sixty pounds. Of the six women that started in her platoon, she and two others finished; the other three were injured. \"We had great leadership at Weapons Company,\" Sergeant Beck said. The attitude was, 'we're here for a mission, we're here for a task, and we're gonna get this done.' \"   Crucial to maintaining this attitude, she said, was the company leadership, headed by Capt. Mark Lenzi. \"We interacted on a daily basis. We hiked, trained, P.T.'d  they were with us,\" Sergeant Beck said. Leadership by example ingrained expectations of high performance into the troops.\nAnother advantage was that Weapons Company comprised mostly corporals and sergeants  NCOs in their early-to-mid-twenties, who were more mature than typical junior enlisted just out of high school. The men had been doing their jobs for years  tasks the women in the company had been trained for just months prior.   The Weapons Company Marines still debated whether women should be in combat arms units, but they did so calmly, she said. \"We got to a point where we all talked about it openly, and no one was mad about it,\" Sergeant Beck said. \"We just talked professionally.\"  Good leadership also made a strong impression on Lance Cpl. Jordyn Ridgeway when she joined the experiment and learned to drive amphibious assault vehicles, known as tracks, at Camp Pendleton in California. During the months of initial training, she said, the instructors \"welcomed us with open arms. They said, 'you might be a female, but you're gonna be the best tracker out there, and I want them to know that I was the one who trained you.' \" She stayed in touch with her former crew chief, who became a mentor.  But when the female trackers traveled to Twentynine Palms, Calif., to meet their male counterparts, the respectful environment disappeared. Sgt. Kathryn Bynum, who was part of the same platoon, said some of the women would flirt \"and make us look stupid.\" A lot of the men \"thought we were a joke,\" she said. \"Even the staff NCOs would sit around and find ways to make fun of us.\"  Her crew chief, a six-foot-plus, 200-pound male sergeant who towered over her 5-foot-4, 105-pound frame, addressed her with a variety of slurs. He left a dead mouse on her cot in an effort to get her to react. She laughed off the mouse, saying, \"Is that all you got?\" Her crew chief persisted, flinging water in her face. \"He didn't stop until I hit him,\" said Sergeant Bynum, the eldest of nine children.   \"The person that won was the person that was most aggressive,\" she said. \"It wasn't the one that knew the most.\" Not even this closely supervised unit was impervious to the kind of hazing and harassment the corps has tried to reduce. All of the women I interviewed said that a willingness to fight and prove themselves were the only things that earned them the men's respect.   With a strong sense of duty as an NCO, Sergeant Bynum kept going. \"I have to take care of those girls coming in,\" she said. \"There have to be NCOs.\" In a previous unit, she had blazed a similar trail after coming out as a lesbian. Other Marines gave her a hard time. \"Someone has to be the first one,\" she said. \"Think about the next kid after you.\"   Sergeant Bynum and Lance Corporal Ridgeway recalled just one male sergeant, a natural leader with combat experience, who won the respect of both the men and women. In contrast, Sergeant Beck said her integrated unit was \"one of the best\" she had ever worked in.  Toxic leaders  those who use hazing and shame as tools to keep their troops in line  kill morale for everyone, and only make the challenges of gender integration worse. Good leaders guide their Marines to grow into good leaders themselves.   In the last month of testing, Lance Corporal Ridgeway described what she called the \"come to Jesus\" moment among the females in the amphibious assault vehicle platoon. Sequestered in a Quonset hut one night, they realized they had to be there for each other, and created the support structure lacking in their unit. This helped buoy them to the finish. \"We just wouldn't stop fighting because we believed in what we were doing,\" Sergeant Bynum said.   Good small-unit leadership will never be more crucial than on January 1st, when the integration mandate goes into effect. \"At the end of the day, we're family,\" Sergeant Bynum said. \"And the family dynamic is going to change. Maybe it'll be a little more dysfunctional, but we're still going to take care of each other we're still going to be the best no matter what.\"  Teresa Fazio served as a Marine Corps officer from 2002-2006, deploying once to Iraq. Her writing has been published in The New York Times and Task and Purpose, and is forthcoming in Vassar Quarterly and Consequence Magazine. Her manuscript, Unbecoming, was a finalist in the 2015 Autumn House Press Nonfiction Contest. You can follow her on Twitter @DoctorFaz.\n", "amputees therapist therapists occupational physical": " Last week I was at the wedding of an old co-worker.  There was a big cast  there, all past employees (physical and occupational therapists) from the amputee section of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center.  Included in the mix was a former patient  I recognized immediately, though I did not remember his injuries.  That I remembered his face, but not the fact that he was missing both arms and a leg at the groin,  caught me totally off guard. Finding myself surprised by the extent of this young man's injuries  injuries that were routine for so many years  well, a light flickered in my  brain. And suddenly, I was back there in our old clinic, surrounded by young men on treatment tables.  In my mind, their faces blurred softly and their injuries faded into the ever-present background of yellow hospital gowns, wheelchairs, and parallel bars. At Walter Reed, where most of our patients were combat-injured active duty soldiers and marines  young men in their 20s with crew cuts   the therapists had gotten into the habit of identifying our patients by their injuries when discussing our caseload. Rob from Arkansas was a double AK (missing both legs above the knee) with orange running shoes.  Charlie was a triple (missing three limbs) with a nonregulation beard that needed to come off STAT.  Chris was an AK/BK (above knee and below knee amputee) who comes to PT in the morning and was really particular about time management (i.e., demanded to be seen at 0645 (6:45 a.m.) even though we didn't start patient care until 0700. Our patients did the same thing to each other.  Referring to a soldier as a \"hip\" if he happened to missing a leg at the groin.  Or jokingly, \"paper cut\" if a soldier was \"only\" missing one leg below the knee  all in spite of the fact that losing a limb is never a minor injury. After several years in the amputee section, it was not unusual for my colleagues and me to request a favorite type of injury when we were asked to pick up a new patient. Darcy loved the challenge of working with double AK's  (missing legs above the knee).  A devastating injury, but Darcy really had a flair for it.  She scoffed off any compliments by saying it was only because they \"couldn't cheat\" the way someone with a less severe amputation on the other side might.  My co-worker Jared, a highly competent physical therapist, also picked up the complicated patients  doubles and triples. But he sometimes tried to increase his odds of patient success by examining the X-rays of the new patients in the intensive care unit looking for a new patient with long leg amputations and a thin body, two good predictors of easier walking ability.  While Jared was normally a very confident P.T., this was a rare crack in his veneer. Back in the rowdy P.T. office, we used to good-naturedly tease Jared for being a \"cherry picker.\" Adrienne, though, ignored all of us, because she was kind of a snob. She only wanted to work with high profile amputees: special-forces soldiers or West Point officers. As for me, I didn't want to get more stressed out than I already was.  I just wanted an \"easy\" patient. Hopefully a single amputee, minus the additional traumas like fractured limbs or brain injuries  that usually accompany a survivor of an explosion from an imporvised explosive device, or I.E.D.. Except that, even when I did get my dream patient, a friendly young man whose one leg was taken cleanly off by 50-caliber fire, he was plenty messed up.  I hadn't added the unpredictable factor of post-traumatic stress syndrome, or P.T.S.D., into my equation for patient success.  While I believe all of our patients had it, you never knew who was going to have it the worst. Though I no longer work there, it's hard to work the Walter Reed out of me.  I worry that I will never feel as alive or as needed as I did back in our old clinic after the American troop surge in Afghanistan, when we were treating 150 amputees a day and having nightmares all night.  And, it's true, I've struggled to hold onto jobs since.  After being employed at Walter Reed for nine years, now I can't seem to commit to anything.  I bounce from part-time job to part-time job  the reason I had put myself through physical therapy school in the first place.  That I'm right back to where I started feels familiar to me in a good and frightening way. In between gainful employment, I pick up odd jobs like house painting and my one regular but strange gigs: a fit middle-aged woman who pays me cash to come to her house and give her a foot massage. While she is a good conversationalist, smart and witty, there is something about this weird job that leaves a stain on my psyche. After treating combat amputees for most of the last decade, many of my former colleagues struggle with the same thing.  One went back to school for a new career. One had a breakdown. One is trying to sell picture frames on Etsy. Our old supervisor, who had kept all of us going and worked 16 hours a day, is now a dog walker. Weddings are funny places because they seem to inspire all sorts of sentimental thoughts. I remembered a story a young lieutenant told me after he attended a friend's wedding shortly after leaving a leg and an arm behind in Iraq.  It was the first time since his injury that he saw so many of his old friends again.  Sitting at the reception table, he felt suddenly shy.  His prosthetic arm, well, that was obvious.  But his prosthetic leg was hidden under the table.  Just then an acquaintance from his high school broke the silence.  \"So, are you going to show us?\" \"Show you what?\" \"Your leg.\" \"You want to see my leg?\" \"Yeah man.\" My friend, the lieutenant rolled up the trouser sleeve covering his non-injured, fully intact leg. \"Wow!  That's incredible.\" \"Thanks.\" \"It looks so real.\" \"I know.\" And then he sealed the deal.  \"You can touch it if you like.\" \"Really? Wow  it's squishy! It even has hair on it.\" The lieutenant came back from that wedding with a bounce in his step.  He was not a victim.  He was a victor.  And that's the one thing that makes me glad  that while the staff may be on a temporary downswing, our patients, for the most part, are doing well. At Walter Reed, we were all a bunch of strangers thrown together in an out-of-this-world situation.  But back to ordinary life at a wedding, discovering that a man who I would have known as a \"triple\" back in the day, is just another high-speed businessman in Washington, D.C., makes all those years totally worth it.  That I am familiar with him but not his amputations makes me realize that in spite of everything, we really did see each other for the individuals that we were. Although I wish more than anything that he didn't have to get hurt in order for me to recognize that I know his face better than his injuries. Adele Levine worked as a physical therapist at Walter Reed from 2005 until 2014, and is now a physical therapist working in Maryland. Her writing has appeared in The Washington Post, The Washingtonian, Narrative.ly, Signature and Psychology Today, and she is the author of \"Run, Don't Walk: The Curious and Courageous Life Inside Walter Reed Army Medical Center.\" Follow her on Twitter: @PTAdele. ", "school serve years women": " Two women have now earned the Army's elite Ranger designation. A third is in the final phase of Ranger School, the humidity-soaked \"swamp phase\" that ends later this month. In the wake of this history making, Ranger School is now officially opened to women. And now Navy leaders say they are on track to open their arduous basic underwater demolition/SEAL training course to \"anybody who can meet the gender non-specific standards\" early next year. Yet in this case the schoolhouse lags behind the battlefield. Women have served, taken fire and sacrificed their lives alongside the Army Rangers of the 75th Ranger Regiment for years. I had no idea of this fact when, in 2012, a Marine told me about First Lt. Ashley White and her band of teammates who had been recruited for Ranger and SEAL combat missions a year earlier. They were part of what would come to be called cultural support teams, or C.S.T.s, a benign name for a groundbreaking concept. \"What about the combat ban?\" I asked, full of disbelief since I had not heard about this story despite having reported from Afghanistan for years. Her response was the equivalent of my mother-in-law's frequently issued \"bless her heart,\" a verbal pat on the head offered to those clueless souls  lacking in awareness of just how much they do not know. \"Just check it out; you'll see,\" she said. I did. And with each interview I finished, I realized that I had stumbled across a community of women recruited to \"become part of history\" and to join combat operations back in 2011, first by the United States Special Operations Command and then by the Army Special Operations Command. All while the combat ban remained very much in place. These soldiers and service members (not all were Army) could be there, legally, despite the ban on women in ground combat because they were \"attached\" to special operations teams, just not \"assigned\" to them. Battlefield needs drove the decision to recruit, train and deploy this band of teammates who became friends and, ultimately, family. Special operations leaders believed America would never kill its way to the end of its wars. It needed more knowledge, and the knowledge held by half the population remained out of reach; because of Afghan cultural traditions, women could not and would not speak to male soldiers. All that these women saw, knew and heard remained out of reach. That fact led the head of joint special operations command to request a team of American women soldiers fit and skilled enough to serve alongside his highly trained and tested men. So the call went out and a team of women from across the Army, Guard and Reserve, and some from the Air Force and Navy, answered after a selection process lovingly termed \"100 Hours of Hell.\" Twenty or so of these women would accompany Rangers, SEALs, and other special ops teams on \"direct action\" missions, including nighttime raids aimed at keeping pressure on the blossoming insurgency. They boarded the helicopter in the night's starry blackness every evening like any other member of the team. And on the objective, they would take fire, find people and things and gather information aimed at accomplishing the night's mission. They served their country and they placed themselves in harm's way each night. And on Oct. 22, 2011, Lieutenant White was killed in action on a combat operation alongside two Rangers, Sgt. First Class Kristoffer Domeij and Pfc. Christopher Horns. Sergeant Domeij was on his 14th deployment; Lieutenant White and Private Horns on their first. By the time I met them in 2013, Lieutenant White's teammates had returned from war. They mourned their beloved teammate and they vowed to keep her memory alive. But they also mourned the battlefield camaraderie, the shared experience and the concentrated purpose of serving America on the front lines of its longest war. Their friendship was a living, breathing thing. I saw that immediately as I sat around a kitchen table in Fayetteville, N.C., and watched six or seven of these teammates snack on Triscuits and cheddar cheese and talk about their time in Afghanistan with their Ranger platoons and other special operations units. They finished one another's sentences, stepped on one another's jokes and pushed fast forward on each other's stories. They would not talk about themselves, but they praised each other. \"I was so proud the night the Rangers gave Isabel the award,\" one of them said to me of her partner in southern Afghanistan. \"Just to be sitting there and seeing how much respect they had for her because she had made a difference that night.\" Another team member chimed in and interrupted and I realized only later, when reviewing my notes, that I had to write faster than I normally did because almost no one could finish a sentence without her teammate interrupting to add to the story. \"Yeah, remember the night we went out on mission together with your platoon and the woman told us all about the I.E.D.s and her grandmother got so angry that we knew?\" \"I would stay up every night to make sure all of you guys got back from mission,\" another said. It went on like that, that night of conversation and many, many others that followed, with me asking questions of one woman, and her friend and teammate answering with the full story. Frequently they made me laugh, such as when discussing the utility of Spanx (undergarments that the women would wear to make their made-for-men uniforms fit better), the questions they received when traveling together (were they nurses or softball teammates?), and just how they dealt with using the restroom on missions (there is a device called a Shewee, though few used it). But the one question, aside from Lieutenant White's legacy, on which each one was eloquent on her own behalf was what it had meant to lose the link to the Rangers and others special operations teams they served alongside. \"It was awful, like all ties just cut,\" said one team member, a West Pointer and military police officer. \"Those guys are your brothers and then they're gone.\" It is not that they won immediate acceptance from the Rangers and SEALs alongside whom they served. At the outset, skepticism at having to offer up a precious seat on a helicopter to a soldier with a different training cycle, recruiting process and a mere six-week train-up for the mission abounded  especially given that that soldier was female. But these men had adapted repeatedly to the shape-shifting nature of the post-9/11 wars. And by that point in the war, most everyone wanted solutions and battlefield advantage. The cultural support team members understood they would have to earn their place, and all they sought was a fair shot at doing so. That they received. One skeptical team of SEALs expressed doubt about taking its C.S.T. member on a mission, until she found the intelligence item they were looking for to connect an insurgent to recent attacks wrapped up in a baby's wet diaper. The soldier had helped accomplish the night's mission and that is what mattered. The rotation was only one year, but it had quite clearly changed the women's lives forever. It had ushered them into a special operations community in which they would serve on a mission they felt mattered, alongside the best of the best, at the heart of America's effort in Afghanistan. And then it had sent them back to their regular Army roles once their time was up. That left them only with one another  their memories, their war stories, their battlefield accomplishments  to remind them that their deployment, their time on the frontlines of battle, had actually happened. And from that shared experience of war they had forged a family unto themselves and built a community of friends and sisters stronger than nearly any other tie they had without, at least until that point, anyone noticing. But what these women had done and sacrificed on the battlefield had not gone unnoticed by military leadership. And in June 2013, Lieutenant White and her teammates received a nugget of credit few noted then in a story playing out now. \"Quite frankly, I was encouraged by just the physical performance of some of the young girls that aspire to go into the cultural support teams,\" then-Maj. Gen. Bennet Sacolick of Special Operations Command said at the time at a Pentagon news conference on the opening of combat roles previously closed to women. \"They very well may provide a foundation for ultimate integration.\" Gayle Tzemach Lemmon is a Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Her most recent book is the New York Times bestseller \"Ashley's War: The Untold Story of a Team of Women Soldiers on the Special Ops Battlefield.\" Her writing has appeared in The Atlantic, Newsweek, Foreign Policy, Foreign Affairs, Fast Company and New York Times International, among other outlets, and she is a contributor to Atlantic Media's Defense One. You can find more of her work at http://www.gaylelemmon.com and follow her on Twitter at @gaylelemmon .\n", "named private": " On December 2, 1941, an Army private named Harold Grove Moss was a week away from finishing his Morse Code training to become a radio operator. He was stationed at Camp Roberts in California. \"Something seemingly a little unusual happened yesterday and that was all the Japanese boys were taken out of our battery,\" he wrote that day in a letter to his parents in Minatare, Neb. But he didn't dwell on it; he also mentioned that a homemade cake they sent \"wasn't broken a bit,\" and ended with a modest Christmas list, including \"a camera\" and a \"pair of brown civilian shoes (no two tone).\" Five days later, as news of the attack on Pearl Harbor was filtering through the ranks, he wrote again. \"Dear folks,\" he began, \"Have just heard a few minutes ago that Japan has really declared war now and that we will retaliate immediatelyAll that goes with this war fervor is taking place all along the coast with patrols, listening posts, and ship movement orders being givenI hope, but I know it is a vain hope, that you will not worry unnecessarily and not be overly anxious about me.  Of course I will write often to tell you all I can, not knowing what will be done with the mail.\"  Much of his mail did reach its destination, and is now available to many more readers thanks to his daughter, Lori Neumann, who has transcribed and posted this and 340 more of his letters from the Pacific at mossletters.com. Alongside the letters are dozens of photos and other bits of wartime ephemera which made it back to the states  some in the letters, and some with Mr. Moss himself. He began his tour as a University of Nebraska sophomore in September 1941 and saw action in the Philippines and in Okinawa as a member of the 225th Field Artillery Battalion; his service ended Nov. 1, 1945, a few months after the Japanese surrendered. This now-public family archive is a vivid, personal account of Mr. Moss's four years and two months of service in the Pacific, recording dramatic turning points alongside the day-in, day-out moments of a battalion waiting for something to happen. Mr. Moss's mother saved all of his letters in a shoebox, where they stayed until Ms. Neumann got hold of it in 2001, several years after she first heard her father speak about the war. Her parents were visiting her, and somehow his service came up. \"All of a sudden he just started crying,\" she recalled. \"He started telling us some stories,\" most of which, she said, were also new to his wife of more than 50 years. \"My mom  her mouth just dropped. He had held it inside for so many years.\" Ms. Neumann was thrilled to see a side of her father she had never known existed, a guy who loved to dance and studied law books in his spare time. The photos, also, give a sense of what his life overseas was like. They range from soldiers wearing leis or clowning by a pool in Hawaii, where Mr. Moss was stationed for a time; bombed-out buildings and corpses in the Philippines; life after the hostilities ended in Okinawa. The combination of family lore and world events made her feel a greater responsibility toward the material. \"I was a history major in college,\" she said. \"I knew exactly what I wanted to do with these stories. I wanted them to be in a place where in a hundred years someone could come and find them.\" In an introduction to the letters, she wrote that even as objects, they all seemed to have their own messages: \"Somehad faded and were beyond legibility.  All were fragile.  Many had resealed themselves with the passage of time.  Some envelopes still contained added treasures such as pictures, newspaper clippings, Japanese money and worship service bulletins. The yellowed, fragile sheets of parchment have long lost their elasticity, and I was always careful to neither tear nor deface them.  Each letter contains its own smell.\" Mr. Moss was studying journalism when he was drafted. His prose, though laced with the slang of the time  \"swell,\" \"boy, I'd like to,\" \"but plenty\"  is visual and gripping, even though he is trying not to worry his parents, who had three sons fighting. Despite lots of names and descriptions, Ms. Neumann said that most of what he wrote made it past the censors. His letter of July 15, 1944, combines unsparing detail about the battle of Saipan with the information that he had seen his brother, Dick, and that they're both O.K.: \"The scenes of battle were everywhere, the effect of the naval shells, the Japs own mortar fire on our troops and many bodies lying around, in all positions and all stages of decomposition.  Sights that you hope you will never see again.  Along the beach, in and out of the water, were wrecked tanks, alligator debris and a thousand things necessary to the campaign.  The smell was terrible and the dust from tanks and vehicles was so thick you could hardly breathe.  Well the first thing for the night was dig a foxhole and that first one I built was a stinker.  I thought it was all right but when our artillery began to fire the thing almost caved in and the sand was all over me.  I couldn't hardly get out of the thing for fear of being shot and I wasn't feeling too brave anyway.  About the second day after I landed Dick came into camp looking dirty and disheveled.  I knew he must be having it pretty tough in his outfit and I was pretty worried, but he had a big grin and I felt better.\" Ms. Neumann first compiled the letters into a book for her father, with his help. The chapter introductions he wrote appear online as well, along with a few essays that recall some of his most harrowing war experiences, including his landing on the island of Mindoro, in the Philippines, as part of a secret mission to unload ammunition. Mr. Moss lived to see the book completed in 2003, but by then had the beginnings of Alzheimer's disease and died of lung cancer in 2008. Ms. Neumann started the website this year with help from her son. Though some of the letters are typewritten, Ms. Neumann notes in the margins that she can tell when her father was writing under stress, because his even cursive got  bigger and loopier. One such letter is to his brother Phil from April 15, 1945. \"Right now I'm sitting in a foxhole in Okinawa,\" he wrote. \"Received a bad scare yesterday morning when two shells hit only a short distance from me.  Shrapnel wrecked one of our chairs and ripped our tent.  I hope we don't get a reception tonight.\" After the war, Mr. Moss went back to the University of Nebraska to finish his education under the G.I. Bill. It was there he also met his wife, Dorothy, a fellow student, and Ms. Neumann's mother. He graduated in 1948 with a degree in journalism. Ms. Neumann said her father returned to Minatare and began working in his father's store, selling furniture, gas and feed. He applied for and was offered a job at The Omaha World-Herald, but didn't take it. \"He felt he had to turn it down,\" Ms. Neumann said. \"He felt he had to help his dad,\" and, she added, he was suffering from depression, something she also didn't find out about until she was an adult. But although he never became the journalist he trained to be, the Mosses did travel, something Mr. Moss had also always wanted: he rejoined the Army in 1949, and spent 30 years as a chief warrant officer, with postings in France, Korea, Germany, Crete, as well as many stateside. In 1952 the family adopted their younger son from a German orphanage. Ms. Neumann, who is 68, and her husband live in a retirement community in Phoenix where the war feels closer than it might elsewhere. \"We have some Rosie the Riveters here,\" she said. She's still at work scanning all of the original letters and adding them to the site, which she says is necessary because the originals, all more than seven decades old, won't last much longer.", "suicide veteran": " As suicide attempts go, mine was of the halfhearted variety. In fact, some might even argue that it was no attempt at all. The police arrived at my Austin home following a fight I'd had in the driveway with my friend Bill, who's also a veteran. Bill had been called over to the house by my then girlfriend because she was worried about the way I was acting. I was wired on a cocktail of Adderall and Trazodone, and had a few drinks the night before as well. When the police arrived the following morning, a man and a woman, I asked the woman if her pistol was loaded. \"Of course it is. Why would you ask a thing like that?\" \"Because I want you to shoot me in the head.\" To this day, I'm not sure why I said that. In retrospect I think it was less about wanting to die and more about expressing to another human being that I was in pain. But they were police officers, and a solicitation for suicide-by-cop, however unconvincing, was something they took very seriously. \"Right,\" the male officer interjected. \"We're gonna have to bring you to the hospital.\" A minor struggle ensued outside, to the entertainment of my neighbors who observed the scene from a comfortable distance. I learned later from Bill and my now ex-girlfriend that the police entered my home and grabbed all the pharmacy bottles they could find (which numbered in the teens) and brought them to the hospital so the emergency room staff would know what I was on. They even stuck a catheter up my urethra.    They held me in observation for a day and a half, until I could get a friend to pick me up and drive me to the Austin Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic to speak to a mental health specialist. She wanted me to come in every week through the summer, but I told her I had plans to study abroad in France, so she made me promise to check back in when I returned or she would have me brought in. I came for a follow-up at the end of the summer, just because I didn't want the police to come back to my house. I had no interest in engaging with the V.A. mental health specialists. They were way too quick to prescribe medication, and drugs were something I was trying to get away from.   In Afghanistan, I served as a Navy corpsman (combat medic). I never fired a weapon in combat, but I did treat gunshot and fragmentation wounds. The heat, the sweat, the smell of filth, the fear and danger, the long hours on the road, the mutual distrust of the local populace, the belief that the next time we left the wire would be the time we'd get hit, the four or five instances of absolute terror spread out over a yearlong deployment  these were the things that gave me pause and caused me to desire and seek numbness.  I had also suffered an injury in a car accident a year before I got out of the Navy. The accident was caused by an adverse reaction to a sleep medication, which led me to sleepwalk to my car, get in and drive. As a result, there was no shortage of pain medications in my possession. For a person in free fall, it's difficult to see the bottom. Certain programs of recovery describe a \"white light\" experience; a moment of divine clarity in which the user finally gets it. This was not true for me. I'd tried in vain to get clean for the better part of four years following my return from Afghanistan. Eventually, the effort paid off, and I got better. There was no white light.  It requires great discipline to get sober and stay sober. But sobriety also requires community. It's necessary to be able to say to another addict or alcoholic, \"I have this problem, too; I'm like you. If I can beat this, you can beat this.\"  Veterans with drinking and drug problems experience an additional layer of isolation. The feeling that we can't relate to non-veteran addicts and alcoholics is pervasive among the veterans in recovery whom I know personally. But I've come to learn that addiction is indiscriminate, and we have more in common with civilian addicts than we're perhaps inclined to believe.  We can't talk sensibly about veteran suicide without first talking seriously about veteran addiction. Drug and alcohol abuse are major indicators of suicide. This is especially true in the veterans community. There's no doubt that we're facing a mental health crisis. Our mental health professionals in the V.A. and in the civilian world have a tendency to over prescribe mood stabilizers, tranquilizers and anti-depressants. These drugs all have legitimate uses, and many patients absolutely need them. But if our focus is on using drugs to treat post-traumatic stress disorder or other combat related problems, we might, in fact, be making things worse. It's possible that I'm wrong; I speak entirely from my own experience. But for me, I could not come down off the ledge until the drugs and alcohol were off the table.  To read more about veteran suicides, see a recent New York Times story about suicide in one Marine Corps battalion, and a follow-up Q. and A. on Facebook.\n ", "lt women article command": " For decades the Marine Corps has tolerated, even encouraged, lower performance from the young women who enlist in its ranks, an insidious gender bias that begins with the way women are treated immediately after they sign up and continues through their training at boot camp. The results are predictable  female Marines risk being less confident and less fully accepted than their male counterparts, because the Corps has failed them from the outset. That is the position of Lt. Col. Kate Germano, an active-duty Marine officer who commanded both a Marine recruiting station in San Diego and a segregated all-female training battalion at Parris Island, the Corps' boot camp in South Carolina. Colonel Germano presented this argument in a draft article, \"When Did It Become an Insult to Train Like a Girl?\" that she wrote early this year and in which she argued for tougher standards and higher expectations, or, in her words, a movement toward \"radical change.\" The article, which does not address full integration into combat roles but details institutional patterns that Colonel Germano suggests ensure female Marines will not be fully respected by their male peers, had been slated for publication in September in the monthly Marine Corps Gazette, a private publication that serves as the Corps' de facto professional journal. Then matters grew complicated.  Colonel Germano was relieved of command at Parris Island in June under circumstances that remain contentious, setting off a controversy about whether she was being punished for what the Corps calls an abusive leadership style, or for forcefully expressing her views about the how the Corps trains and integrates women into its male-dominated ranks. Soon after she was relieved, the editor of the Gazette, John Keenan, who is also a former Marine colonel, dropped Colonel Germano's article from the journal's publication lineup. Her arguments taking the Corps to task for what she depicted as a record of double standards and complacency stood not to reach Marines' eyes, including such passages as this: \nThe performance double standard extends to virtually every aspect of recruit training.  Over the past decade, female recruits have consistently scored below their male counterparts in every quantifiable category minus the gender-normed physical fitness test. Yet despite the statistics, historical records do not indicate that anyone has ever seriously considered why females have consistently been outperformed at boot camp. Acceptance of the status quo has simply become the norm. Ironically, notwithstanding the delta in female-male performance, a greater percentage of female recruits are promoted by contract to private first class upon graduation, meaning they are also more swiftly promoted to lance corporal in spite of potentially being less qualified. This is essentially where the Marine Corps meritocracy cart goes off the rails.  The relief of Colonel Germano has been widely covered in the news media; criticism of the Corps surrounding her dismissal has at times been unsparing. The Gazette's decision raised a new question: Had the Corps exerted pressure on the journal's editor to pull Colonel Germano's article, and thereby squelch her voice? Mr. Keenan's answer was an emphatic no. \"I have never, ever, in my nine years as editor, been given any editorial direction from the official Marine Corps,\" he said by telephone Monday morning. He added: \"Not printing that article is solely my decision.\" (The Marine Corps seconded Mr. Keenan's statement. Headquarters-Marine Corps \"does not have any vote on what the editors at Gazette decide to publish, and we respect the contributions submitted by our fellow Marines,\" wrote Maj. Christian Devine, a spokesman.) For the Gazette's part, the reasons behind the decision to pull the article were simple, Mr. Keenan said. Colonel Germano's relief complicated prospects for publication in the journal not just because it had damaged her professional credibility but also because some readers might see publication as an implicit endorsement of her position in her dispute with the Corps about being fired. \"You could argue that running that article would bolster her argument\" surrounding her dismissal, he said. \"And I'm not going to bolster that argument  on either side.\" Mr. Keenan also said, however, that whatever the perceptions about Colonel Germano's dismissal, her article contained valuable insights. \"Personally, I feel there is a lot of validity to what she is saying about, 'Don't hold women to lower standards,' \" he said. Late last week, after hearing of the Gazette's decision to kill her article, Colonel Germano provided the draft to The New York Times, with permission to publish it on this blog. In a phone call on Monday, she said she did not want to focus on her relief from command, but to use this moment as a chance to acknowledge the shortfalls in how female Marines are made, with hope of reforming the Corps in a way that will be more combat effective  and respectful and fair  for men and women alike. Do you agree with Colonel Germano's article arguing that women who enlist in the Marine Corps should not face lower expectations for accountability and performance than their male peers? Why or why not? What can be done to improve gender integration? Share your views in the comments section below. A selection of responses will be posted later this week.\n The text is below. * * * \n\n\"When Did It Become An Insult To Train Like a Girl?\"\nBy Lt. Col. Kate Germano During the Super Bowl this year, the feminine product company Always created sensation with their commercial \"Run Like a Girl.\"  For those non-football enthusiasts out there like myself, I had to tube the commercial up on the Internet to see what the \"ad for pads,\" as the Huffington Post called it, was all about. The commercial begins with a very attractive blonde 20-something being asked to demonstrate what it means to run like a girl.  Predictably, she jogs in place while flailing her arms in the air and giggling.  When the same question is posed to a group of 9-12-year-old girls, however, they have a completely different understanding of the question. Determinedly, they commit every muscle to simulate winning a race, clearly unaware that anything else would be expected by society or their peers on the playground. The question is then asked, \"When did it become an insult to run like a girl?\" At first glance, it would seem that there could be no practical application of the commercial or its underlying message to the recruit training environment. After all, the military is supposed to be one of the few bastions of equality and fair treatment existent in modern American society  a meritocracy which holds all of its members to the same high standards and rewards success with opportunities for promotion and advancement. A deeper examination of how the Marine Corps trains women, however, falsifies this premise. For years the Marine Corps has tacitly accepted that substandard performance from female recruits is to be expected, thus begging the question, \"When did it become an insult to train like a girl?\" In order to get at the root of this question, we must first examine how success is quantified at recruit training. The Marine Corps is unique in that it maintains gender-segregated enlisted entry-level training. All women who enlist are trained at Fourth Recruit Training Battalion on the Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island. Regardless of gender, each recruit is expected to pass the initial strength test (IST) comprised of a mile-and-a-half run, flexed arm hang or pull ups, and abdominal crunches. Each recruit must then pass a series of nonsubjective graduation requirements, including academic testing, practical application testing, swim qualification, and the physical and combat fitness tests. They must also qualify on the rifle range with the M16-A4 service rifle. The culminating test for every recruit is the Crucible  a defining event requiring endurance and teamwork for more than two days with little food or sleep. Only after successful completion of these requirements can a recruit earn the title of United States Marine. Other than gender-normed physical and combat fitness tests, there is no difference in how graduation requirements are evaluated or scored for males or females. Unfortunately, that is where the parity for males and females in training ends. In general, from the instant a female applicant joins the delayed entry program (DEP) she faces lower expectations for accountability and performance than her male peers. Females are often allowed to miss applicant physical fitness training, seldom hold leadership positions within their respective recruiting substations, and are frequently allowed to ship to recruit training in spite of not having made progress with their physical development, all of which is observed firsthand by their male counterparts. As a result of this double standard, many female recruits arrive at boot camp utterly unprepared for the mental and physical rigors of training. Even more significant, their male counterparts arrive at recruit training with well-established preconceptions about the difference in accountability for men and women in the Marine Corps based on their observations in the DEP. The double standard is reinforced by the fact that, despite most females having an average of five months in the DEP, their IST failure rate is historically nine times greater than that of their male counterparts. The performance double standard extends to virtually every aspect of recruit training. Over the past decade, female recruits have consistently scored below their male counterparts in every quantifiable category minus the gender-normed physical fitness test. Yet despite the statistics, historical records do not indicate that anyone has ever seriously considered why females have consistently been outperformed at boot camp. Acceptance of the status quo has simply become the norm. Ironically, notwithstanding the delta in female-male performance, a greater percentage of female recruits are promoted by contract to private first class upon graduation, meaning they are also more swiftly promoted to lance corporal in spite of potentially being less qualified. This is essentially where the Marine Corps meritocracy cart goes off the rails.   For decades, female recruits have been trained in general isolation from their male peers. Female recruits are primarily trained on a compound in a removed location on the Depot with its own recruit exchange, chow hall, health clinic, classrooms, and squad bays. Female-male recruit interaction is strictly limited to occasionally sitting in the same large classroom for instruction or attending church on Sundays. There is very little male-female socialization during training. The bottom line is that gender bias in the Marine Corps starts in the DEP and continues at recruit training in part because the males believe the females don't work as hard  mainly because the males rarely see their female counterparts during training. Further, the segregation of female recruits and drill instructors during training creates a sense of mystery about how female Marines are made   even though they follow the same training schedule and regulations as the males.   If females are held to lower standards for performance from the day they join the DEP, it stands to reason that they will continue to underperform at recruit training when surrounded only by other females. Because they aren't challenged to compete with their male counterparts during physical fitness events, most only aspire to achieve female standards for physical performance, which many would justifiably argue are too low to begin with. The truth is that when female recruits are held to higher standards, they rise to the occasion. This was clearly evidenced in Fourth Battalion following recent changes to the conduct of the final Crucible hike and the subsequent Emblem Ceremony where successful recruits are formally made Marines. For years, the females and males on Parris Island conducted the nine-mile hike back from the Crucible separately, only to link up for a joint Emblem Ceremony at the Iwo Jima statue after the hike. Conspicuously, a line of chairs would be staged behind the female formation for recruits who were too \"exhausted\" or sore to stand.  Conversely, there were no chairs staged behind the male formation. It was simply expected that the females would fall out of the formation, and fall out they did because there was no set expectation that standing through the ceremony was part of earning the title of U.S. Marine.   Fourth Battalion has worked to make the final Crucible hike a joint male-female evolution to strengthen the mindset that all recruits are expected to work hard and meet the same standards in order to earn the title of U.S. Marine, regardless of gender. It has not been without a fight, however.  Many senior personnel on the Depot are adamantly opposed to conducting a co-ed Crucible hike. None of the critics have been able to articulate why it would be bad for the Institution, particularly since males and females hike at the same pace of three miles per hour and all hikes elsewhere in the Corps are integrated. Despite assertions that a joint hike would cause more females to drop out and lead to more injuries, neither has come to fruition.  Since we implemented co-ed hikes, our female recruits have completed the hikes without slowing the males down and more female recruits actually complete the hikes instead of getting into a van midway. Clearly, it became an insult to \"train like a girl\" when it became normal to expect less from female recruits.  If we are to make a lasting impact on how female Marines see themselves and are perceived by others, we must demand more from them right from the start.   High standards for performance should never be gender-normed and, barring physiological differences, concrete evidence shows that women can perform to the same standards as their counterparts if it is demanded of them. In Fiscal Year 15, the Fourth Battalion witnessed this phenomena firsthand at the rifle range. For decades, the female initial qualification rate on the rifle range at Parris Island hovered between 67%  78%, compared to 85%  93% for the male training battalions. The male battalions also produced significantly greater percentages of rifle experts and sharpshooters. In Fiscal Year 15, however, the Fourth Battalion drill instructors received a defined intent for success on the rifle range, and through a strong partnership with Weapons and Field Training Battalion were able to achieve an unprecedented 91.68% female initial qualification average. The key to success was establishing the firm expectation that change was both possible and necessary to improve the credibility of our female recruits- come-new-Marines. Once the drill instructors, coaches, and primary marksmanship instructors began to see success, the movement became contagious. For the first time in history, female recruits are competitive with their male counterparts on the rifle range, proving it is not an insult to \"shoot like a girl\". However, for lasting improvement across all of the testable categories to be realized, the Institution must be willing to critically examine the environment in which Marines are made and implement radical changes. The Marine Corps has consistently touted that gender segregated training is healthy in that it provides female recruits the environment they need to develop self-confidence. However, if it is automatically assumed they won't be able to compete with their male counterparts to achieve stellar results, the expectation that females will somehow magically develop confidence simply because they are led by female Marines is unrealistic. Isolation of female recruits does nothing to foster a climate of mutual respect, nor can it be said that it contributes to their self-confidence. The assumption that confidence can be created without hard work and high standards is patently false. As football coach Bill Parcells once said: \"You can't dream up confidence. Confidence is born of demonstrated ability.\" This applies to outward identity as well. Most female Marines will tell you that the adoption of the male dress blue uniform by women won't increase their sense of belonging or identity as a Marine. If a female recruit or Marine is held to less rigorous standards for conduct and performance, no new cover or dress-blue coat will camouflage the existence of gender bias. High standards should be demanded of all recruits and Marines in order to eliminate performance and conduct double standards and drive the Marine Corps towards a true meritocracy. The continued passive acceptance of diminished standards for females simply because we assume they are less capable of achieving high standards is contrary to our very ethos and is corrosive to our character as an elite fighting force. Until every leader demands the best from our recruits and Marines regardless of gender and the Institution truly considers the benefits of a more integrated approach to boot camp, it will continue to be an insult to \"train like a girl\".  ", "squadron stands image experience commander flag holding captured": " Wars often produce iconic images that capture the naked truths of the struggle.  Five Marines raise the American flag at Iwo Jima.  A South Vietnamese general calmly fires a pistol into the head of a suspected Vietcong militant during the Tet offensive.  A Huey evacuates Americans from a roof in Saigon in the spring of 1975.   One image from our experience in the United States Army during the Iraq war stands out.  It is a photograph of our squadron commander, then Lt. Col. Rod Coffey, holding a captured flag.  The flag is now the widely known black banner of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL.  The photograph was taken by one of Colonel Coffey's soldiers in March 2008 after American forces completely defeated insurgents in a portion of Diyala Province.  Colonel Coffey stands with the flag in his right hand, his trademark cigar dangling in his left and the look of a man resolved to defeat militants whose barbarism today is ever so disturbingly documented by the media. The flag is not unique to the Islamic State.  Variations of the black banner adorned with the declaration of faith known as the shahada are used by other Islamic extremists.  However, there is little doubt in our minds that the enemy our unit fought and defeated that winter would eventually become part of the Islamic State. Our unit found the flag near a mass grave site and an insurgent training camp.     Our unit  Third Squadron, Second Stryker Cavalry Regiment  then spent several days assisting Iraqi families in properly burying their dead.  This was one of the many actions Colonel Coffey and our unit embraced to build trust with the Iraqis who had previously lived under the tyranny of the militant Islamists. Once sufficiently powerful American forces were in place to allow the people of Iraq to defy the extremists, Colonel Coffey worked closely with the senior sheikhs and political leaders to maintain the peace.  He often told his men that the greatest weapon they wielded in the fight was decency.   Like many of his subordinates, Colonel Coffey was on his second deployment to Iraq.  He received a Silver Star for his actions in the initial thrust of American forces into Baghdad known as Thunder Run in 2003.  The colonel was a rugged man set against a desolate environment but also a cerebral student of military history, the art of counterinsurgency and the writings of Thomas Hardy. At the time, the black flag was not as iconic a symbol as it has become in the last year with the Islamic State's successes in Iraq and Syria.  However, the capture of that flag was a moment of victory that recalls previous wars in which tangible evidence of an enemy's defeat was more prevalent.  The enemy our unit faced sought to fight the superior Americans asymmetrically with improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.s, snipers and hit-and-run tactics.  Earlier in the deployment, Colonel Coffey's unit was handpicked to clear a neighborhood of Baghdad that The Los Angeles Times called Al Qaeda's \"Alamo\" during the end of the surge campaign. We lost six soldiers during that successful operation that served in many ways as a coda to the American military's surge operations in Baghdad.  In Diyala Province our unit would lose six more service members and a faithful Iraqi interpreter after insurgents rigged a house to explode when American soldiers searched it.  As Colonel Coffey was a student of military history, the symbolism of capturing his enemy's colors was gratifying to him and a fitting tribute to his fallen brethren. Although the Islamic State seeks to portray itself as an impressive military force, the insurgents we faced did not put up much of a fight when met with a well-coordinated offensive.  Instead they sought to dissolve into the populace. The barbarity the Islamic State regularly displays is not unfamiliar to American service members who had the unpleasant experience of encountering its antecedent in Iraq.  More important, we know from our experience that it can be defeated.  The Islamic State's military successes of the past year should be seen for what they are: fragile and reversible. Soldiers do not choose their wars.  Our grandfathers' mandate in World War II was clear and just.  As we reflect on our war and the friends we lost, images like this help to vindicate our fight.  While policy makers debated and then realized that there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, hundreds of thousands of service members protected Iraqi civilians against violence and chaos. What was clear back then and even more so today is the inhumanity of groups like the Islamic State and their tendency to cower and flee when faced with an organized force.  When deciding what to do with the captured colors, Colonel Coffey followed an unspoken code of quiet honor and dignity that American soldiers from Valley Forge to Gettysburg to Normandy would easily identify, acknowledge and respect. Instead of mounting the flag in a trophy case behind glass, he presented it to the local Iraqi security forces.  This simple gesture served as a symbol of shared sacrifice and a reminder of the threat to Iraqi liberty, a threat that is now being confronted by the Iraqis themselves. Joe Myers served two tours in Iraq as an Army fire support officer in 2005 and 2007-8.  He is currently an analyst with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Tim Hsia served with Joe on both of his deployments. He works at Pocket, and is on the Service to School, or S2S, leadership team. Service to School provides free assistance to veterans applying to higher education institutions.\n", "veteran serve candidates war presidential": " The first Democratic presidential debate once again raised the issue of military service during the Vietnam War. Senator Bernie Sanders was asked how he could be commander-in-chief, given that he applied for conscientious objector status during that war. (Though his application was rejected he was not drafted and did not serve.) But while Mr. Sanders's college-age pacifism  his office says he is not a pacifist now  has raised questions, he is not the only candidate to avoid Vietnam: Donald Trump and a few other candidates also were old enough to serve in that war but did not, for various reasons. The one candidate who did serve in Vietnam, former Senator Jim Webb, a decorated former Marine, dropped out of the Democratic nominating race. And the only remaining veteran in the pack, Senator Lindsey Graham, who recently retired from the Air Force Reserve, was 19 when the last American troops left Vietnam. Vietnam has always been a sort of litmus test for some voters who view a lack of military service in that war as a cause for dismay and even disdain. But should the candidates be judged so harshly? Most of us who were old enough to have been subject to the military draft during Vietnam view questions related to the war and our draft status through our personal reactions to that war. I signed up for a Marine Corps officer training program on Oct. 21, 1965, and my thoughts after the Democratic debate have focused on my situation around that time period: What was I thinking? As a 20-year-old growing up in Lubbock, Tex., I had few philosophical thoughts about the war. A senior in high school at the time of the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962, I was keenly aware of the fear that communism might spread throughout the world, and I readily bought into the so-called domino theory that if South Vietnam fell to communist forces, other countries in the region would be next. Although I had to register with my local draft board at age 18, I began college at Texas Tech University in the fall of 1963 with no particular plan to deal with my military obligation. Then, leading up to the 1964 presidential election, Senator Barry Goldwater made several speeches in which he recommended our country go to a volunteer military and abolish the draft. Although not a strong proponent of abolishing the draft, President Lyndon Johnson suggested a commission to study the issues involved with switching to an all-volunteer force. But by March 1965 Senator Goldwater had lost the election and President Johnson began sending more ground troops into Vietnam. At that point I knew the idea of abolishing the draft was probably a pipe dream. At the recommendation of a buddy of mine, Lee Roy Herron, I joined a Marine Corps officer training program that did not interrupt my studies. After surviving 10 weeks of officer candidates' school in the summer of 1966, I transferred into a Marine Corps law program. As I had hoped, my three years of active duty after law school were relatively uneventful. On the other hand, Lee Roy died heroically in battle in Vietnam in early 1969, soon after he had volunteered for the front lines with fellow Marines. How quickly we forget the realities of military service and the draft situation that existed during Vietnam and the stark differences in individual experiences. Personally, I did not serve in Vietnam, never saw combat and received no awards for valor. It is difficult for me to judge the lack of military service by Senator Sanders or Mr. Trump or any other candidate when some of my personal military decisions were centered on achieving just what they did: avoiding setting foot in Vietnam and experiencing combat. Although we could just treat all Vietnam-era veterans as heroes, and harshly judge all those who did not serve in that or later wars, that view is too simplistic and unfair. It is also unfair to treat all Vietnam-era veterans who never saw combat as equal in heroism to those who actually saw the fight, were killed or wounded, or taken prisoner, such as Senator John McCain. While all Vietnam-era veterans deserve to be honored for their service, the highest accolades belong to people like my friend Lee Roy. The Vietnam era was a complicated and confusing time, and judgments of draft-age men for their decisions then should not be made hastily or harshly. Prior military service is not a requirement to be commander-in-chief, and youthful decisions made a half-century ago may not be much of an indication of the kind of leader an individual would be now. David L. Nelson spent three years in the Marine Corps, attaining the rank of captain. He became a tax partner with Ernst & Young and represented many of the largest nonprofit organizations in Texas. He is co-author of the book \"David and Lee Roy: A Vietnam Story,\" published by Texas Tech University Press.", "integration female standards readers expectations asked article training gender equal thought male": " Earlier this week, The Times asked readers what they thought of Lt. Col. Kate Germano's article arguing parity for men and women who enlist in the Marines Corps, and what could be done to improve gender integration. Colonel Germano, who served at the all-women boot camp in Parris Island in South Carolina, wrote that women face \"lower expectations for accountability\" and that \"high standards should be demanded of all recruits and Marines.\" About 350 people responded, most of them in favor of equal standards and expectations of training for Marines, but others believed that women cannot meet the physical demands required of a Marine when placed in conflict. Here are selections from the comments, which have been edited and condensed for clarity. I graduated from Parris Island in 1976 and was one of the first female Marines allowed into the Avionics MOS. Though I was only one of two females in the entire squadron, I not only pulled my weight, but felt I made great strides for the female Marines to come behind me. I'm glad to see that nearly 40 years later, someone else is carrying that banner!\nSarge56, Texas I am a 1986 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and have trained with women throughout my military career. They took the same classes and tests, and were expected to score as well or better than us, their male counterparts. There were a a few rare exceptions to the absolute meritocracy, all involving the upper body strength in specific physical strength tests. No bias, just a simple fact. I was privileged to study with and train alongside women who were every bit as capable and had the scores to prove it. I concur with Lt. Col Germano, lowering expectations lowers performance.\nNelson, SLC, Utah If women are going to demand to be in combat or in the Special Forces they should be required to complete and pass the same training as the men. If they cannot, then they shouldn't be allowed to join those units. It is critical than any women in combat situations or Special Forces be able to perform to the same physical level as men. If they cannot then they are a hindrance to the unit and have no place there. I should mention that I am a woman and the wife of a retired career Army NCO.\nJH, Virgina As a US Army officer and airborne ranger for 30 years in the infantry, engineers and other specialties, and married to a West Point classmate who also served for 30 years I have lived this issue. Colonel Germano is exactly right about the need for integration, common standards and expectations. Given good leadership, this will not only raise the performance of the women but also of the men. It is long past time for the Marine Corps to learn from the other services how to integrate its training and raise expectations. Both male and female Marines will then perform better.\nWally, Maryland I have over 23 years in the military, I largely agree with LtCol. Germano's article, I have been through Marine OCS in a segregated environment, and Army OCS in a co-ed one. Based on that, I can state with certainty that *initial* basic training (whether enlisted boot camp or officer candidate school) most definitely should be done in a *segregated* manner. It facilitates focusing on the mission (training), and decreases ditractions and discipline problems. Once a Marine completes basic training, though, such as when officers go on to The Basic School at Quantico, I feel the ranks should become co-ed at that point. That said, I completely agree with holding women to the same standards as men, for the sake of gender legitimacy, being able to have confidence in the person serving beside you, and safety reasons\nMadMax, Kabul If God forbid, my husband or son was wounded on the battlefield, I want to know that the Marine pulling them to safety has the physical strength to do so. Most of the female Marines that I see around base simply do not have the muscle and bone mass required for such effort. Women are not made the same way as men. That's a fact.\nPaula Harris, Virgina Beach Men and women are physiologically different. Given that biological fact, it is illogical to evaluate the performance of males and females based on the same set of factors and measures. The dispute about whether men and women can be expected to perform identically is, likewise, illogical as Freud said, biology is destiny.\nD. H., Philadelphia I disagree wholeheartedly. Celebrate the differences and figure ways to do so without mistreating anyone.\nMCS, New York I joined the Marine Corps in 1980 and with confidence I can say basic training for women today is 100% hardier than in 1980. We didn't PT in uniform; we did shirt, shorts and sneakers. During the force march the WM's were trucked back. We didn't even have the opportunity to qualify with a firearm during boot camp. If you hold women to the same physical standards as men, you definitely will find fewer woman in the Corp and it would defeat all the years women fought just to be in the Corps.\nPenney Lane, San Diego Males produce much more testosterone that enhances their endurance, and biochemically speaking, women cannot and should not be expected to meet those exact standards due to the lack of needed hormonal production. Women can be successful Marines, but the evolutionary process cannot be overcome by opinion.\nIrene Adler, who commented on Facebook Col. Germano is correct. The system of segregated training she describes is being maintained to allow perpetuation of the myth that men are inherently better (real) Marines and that women cannot be.\nSteve Adams, MA I did competitive full-contact, bare-knuckle martial arts for a number of years and I was fortunate to have a teacher that expected the same of me as the men he taught (and I was his first female student). It turned out I was stronger than many of the men I trained with, and a better fighter too. It is a myth that women are not physically capable and need to be coddled. When challenged and given the opportunity to test themselves, they will perform at the same level.\nKai, Chicago People train to the standards presented. If women are provided separate standards, they will train to those standards be forever marked as \"lesser.\" While I am not saying that female Marines should deny their sex and strive to the \"gender neutral\" (which is almost always identified as male, the majority gender), they should be and deserve to be held to the same standards as their male counterparts. Any woman who joins the Marine Corps is not a fragile flower, nor should she be treated as one.\nAlison, New Haven  ", "resources": " My wedding day was the first best day of my life. I could not have ordered a more perfect day if I had had a menu of choices in front of me. The marriage to my best friend was what I was really looking forward to. I wanted to settle down and start a family and that's what we did. Our ideal world was lost on Sept. 6th, 2003. My husband, a member of the National Guard, was activated two days before our second son was born. Two weeks later he went to Iraq on what ended up being almost a year-and-a-half journey where he fought for his country and I fought to maintain our home. For years after his deployment, I watched him struggle. I scratched and clawed to get him resources that were difficult to coordinate. I begged for tests; I fought to be the voice he did not have; I fought to be heard. He would tell his health-care providers one thing, but I would witness another. They experimented with a string of antipsychotic drugs, leaving me to deal with the potential dangerous side effects without any heads up.  I put up with way more than I should have, but I held tight to our \"for better or worse\" vows and the unbending belief that if the tables were turned he would do the same for me. He would take care of me, right?  After years of working through the system, we finally got the diagnoses of traumatic brain injury (TBI) on top of post-traumatic stress disorder. His care team fought hard to make sure his needs were met. We even started a nonprofit geared toward helping veterans and their families. As time went by, two more babies came. My husband had moments of happiness, but generally was deep in depression, struggling with severe migraines and issues with TBI. Suffice it to say that certain lines were crossed, and I felt I could no longer remain married to him. I asked him to leave and, on Friday, our divorce became final. He let me go without hesitation. For him, there was apparently no reason to fight to keep me. I don't want to come across as a bitter ex-wife.  But I am angry that our happy life, our loving relationship was destroyed in combat. After all I had been through with him, I was now faced with another reality. Once you are divorced from a veteran, resources such as counseling go away. I even asked for help to tell him to leave the house but was told no, even though I worried for my safety. I was told their services were to provide a safe place for the veteran. After all the hard work, devotion and advocacy, I felt demoted, unloved.  Veterans need to learn how to reintegrate into their families and how to take care of those families again; how to trust their spouses again. As a caregiver, you are put in a position of authority over your spouse, doling out daily \"what to do's,\" managing the finances. What toll does that take on a marriage that is supposed to be built on equal partnership? At the same time, the caregiver feels forgotten, berated and belittled because his or her complaints pale in comparison to the pain, emotional or otherwise, of the veteran. What happens when we get sick? Surely we do not want to be told, as some spouses are, \"It's not like you're dying! I know guys whose legs have been blown off.\"  As it turns out, I am lucky. I have a job with benefits. But there are so many other military spouses who gave up careers and education to take care of their wounded partners, only to see their marriages disintegrate and find themselves emotionally devastated and without money. At that point, they no longer have access to the multitude of resources available to veterans and their families, such as Department of Veterans Affairs individual or group counseling or educational benefits. Many women who were dependent on their spouses' incomes also find themselves financially in shambles after divorce. Such women, unless they were fiduciaries of their husbands' veterans benefits, might have no access to that money during, or after, marriage.  So, now I am asking myself, what are those spouses supposed to do when they too serve their country and work so hard to help veterans and their families, but are not eligible for their services anymore because they are not family anymore. Many of us feel angry, like we were left holding the empty bag. I really wanted what my parents had, that 50 years together, growing old together thing. I wanted to be worth fighting for, too.  Jackie McMichael is from Durham, N.C., where she currently works as a professional development manager in the software industry.  She was married for 15 years to an officer in the North Carolina National Guard and currently works in her spare time with veteran spouses and organizations.\n"}